Title: Fallout: New Vegas

Rating: 9

Hours Played: 129

Thoughts: The Fallout franchise has a very simple premise: what if the US had been completely destroyed by a nuclear attack? And
Fallout: New Vegas is no exception.

Fallout: New Vegas was an absolutely incredible game to play. It's a classic revenge plot with you, a wasteland courier, setting out
to find a man named Benny who shot you in the head and stole a platinum casino chip which you were on your way to deliver. Having
miraculously survived your shot to the head, you set out into the Mojave Wasteland to make your story. From the moment that you create
your character and leave the house you first wake up in, the entire world is then open to explore.

For me, I decided to help out the town which I woke up in because, in these sorts of games, I tend to play the good guy. Afterwards, I 
decided to follow the main quest a bit. I very much appreciated how this was handled in this game. Rather than simply giving you a 
markerto the city of New Vegas (like how Fallout 4 gives you the Diamond City marker), New Vegas has you follow the road to New Vegas 
with specific markers on major areas on this path in order to allow the player to get a better idea of the world and these major 
settlements before reaching the ultimate goal of New Vegas. It's a small detail that makes it easier for non-exploratory players to get a
better sense of this world. 

The main story is split up into 4 major factions after the Benny plot. You can side with the New California Republic, a government
styled after the pre-war government of the United States, their immediate opposing faction, The Legion, a tyranical group at war with 
the NCR and who commits various atrocities in their goal of conquering the Mojave, Mr. House, a genius inventor from before the bombs 
were dropped who managed to upload his consciousness into a machine and seeks to own New Vegas, or Yes Man, a robot belonging to Mr. 
House whom Benny modified to help him in overthrowing Mr. House so that he could rule New Vegas, though you use to create a New Vegas 
independent from the other three influences. The story is simple, yet effective. It's the kind of game that encourages multiple 
playthroughs to uncover the whole story of this game, though I only did one.

The gameplay of New Vegas is what you'd expect from a first-person shooter, with a slight quirky twist. There are different types of 
weapons to use, such as pistols, rifles, snipers, shotguns, rocket launchers, grenades, blunt melee weapons, power fists, etc. While
the standard gameplay is fairly standard, what sets Fallout apart from other shooters is the VATS mechanic. VATS allows the player
to stop time and target specific parts of an opponent's body. While intersting, I did find VATS to make the game a little too easy. 
After a while I tended to not use it unless an enemy was extremely powerful.

The DLC for New Vegas was fairly hit or miss for me. The first I played was Old World Blues, which sees your character transported to a
strange science facility inhabited by strange scientists from before the war who had their brains put into robots. This was by far my
favorite DLC. The writing was unbelievably funny and the premise was incredibly interesting. The next one I played was Honest Hearts,
which saw you travel to a new area inhabited by various tribes, which the player is tasked with helping. This was my least favorite
DLC due to it being very dull and uninteresting. Next I played Dead Money, which was my second favorite of the four. This DLC changed up
the  gameplay more than any of the other DLCs. This one sees the character stripped of all equipment, kidnapped by a former Brotherhood 
of Steel Elder Elijah, and forced to work for him to unlock the Sierra Madre casino nearby in order for Elijah to steal its riches. This
DLC adds various new elements which completely change the way you play the game and make it an incredibly refreshing side story. The 
final DLC I played was Lonesome Road, which sends the Courier to the Divide, a land which as been destroyed by detonations in several 
nuclear missile silos. This DLC is incredibly linear, with the player simply walking from one point to the other while the main villain
Ulysses tells you about your character's past. Overall I found this DLC really bland and the attempt to give a blank slate character a
backstory was a little odd to me.

My absolute favorite part of New Vegas was the writing and role-playing elements. Every noteworthy character in this game has a
quirky and noteworthy personality that makes the world really shine. The options the player has for conversations and solving quests are
great. There are always a number of ways to solve most quests and tons of little dialogue options that allow you to flesh out your
character. Overall, I really loved New Vegas. It's far from a perfect game, with tons of glitches and such, but I thoroughly enjoyed my 
experience with it. I've only played two Fallout games at this point, but in terms of being a Fallout RPG, New Vegas has got to be my 
favorite so far.