Title: Broken Age

Rating: 6

Hours Played: 11

Thoughts: Broken Age is a point-and-click style adventure game with the unique twist of having the story told from two different 
perspectives. On one hand, you have Vella, a girl from a small village where she and several other girls are being sacrificed to a
strange monster called Mog Chothra who kidnaps maidens from villages in exchange for not destroying them. Vella's story revolves around
her escaping from Mog Chothra and setting out to destroy it. On the other hand, you have Shay, a boy who lives on a spaceship run by his
computer Mom that treats him like a young child still. Shay's story revolves around him meeting a strange stowaway wolf on the ship and
working with him to take control of the ship away from Mom. 

The concept of these two concurring stories is very interesting. It makes for a really cool way of storytelling, with details of one
story being slightly explained in the other. The game is split between two major acts. The first sees the protagonists each going about
their stories. The second sees the two switching places, learning more about their world and attempting to return to their homes.
While I found the stories of act 2 to be interesting, being a simple 'trapped in an unfamiliar world' plot, I enjoyed the stories of
act 1 much more due to them feeling much more fleshed out. 

One of the best aspects of this game for me was its presentation. The art is unlike most other games out there, and was extremely
charming. The writing and voice acting were also excellent. Every character felt real and helped make this world come alive, while still
having bits of humor. The music was ultimately forgettable for me.

The gameplay itself is fairly simple. As a point-and-click adventure, you must explore the world picking up items and using them to 
solve puzzles in order to reach your goal. Some of the puzzles are fairly standard, where a character needs something and so you give it
to them. They give you something you need and you continue on. It's simple, yet effective. Where the game really starts to break down is
when the puzzles get more difficult. As with these types of games, some of the puzzles later on become extremely obscure, and took a
long time to solve. This would be fine if solving these puzzles was satisfying, but more often than not, I found myself lacking that 
"ah ha!" feeling. Instead, most puzzles simply gave me an "oh, that was the solution" feeling more than anything. While the puzzles were
difficult, I didn't get any real enjoyment from solving them, which made the game much less fun to play. 

In addition to the frustratingly difficult puzzles was an incredibly awkward pace. Not only was the story oddly paced, but the actual
game itself was as well. Despite being able to skip dialog and instantly travel between screens by double tapping the exit area, I still
found the game to be very slow. The characters walk very slow with no real way to speed them up, certain screens start with the camera
at a certain angle that prevents you from quickly traveling to the next area, and the loading screens between areas make everything
come to a grinding halt, especially when you're traveling between areas so often. 

By the time I'd just about gotten fed up with all these issues and my enjoyment for the game was starting to wane, I reached the ending.
After a frustrating final puzzle, I was very curious how the story would conclude. Unfortunately, the ending was the most disappointing
part of the game for me. Not only is the final segment incredibly rushed, throwing many details at you all at once and not really
explaining any of them, the actual conclusion to everything was so jarring that I had to look it up to make sure I hadn't done something
wrong. After the final puzzle is complete, there is a short cutscene where Vella and Shay finally meet, and then the game just ends. 
Vella and Shay don't say a word to each other. Numerous threads are just left unanswered and nothing really feels like an adequate
conclusion. By far, this was one of the most unsatisfying endings I've ever experienced, and really made my playthrough end on a sour
note.