Title: Cuphead

Rating: 9

Hours Played: 9

Thoughts: Cuphead is a game that made a huge splash when it came out not for its gameplay, but for its visuals. Cuphead is a 2D run &
gun style shooter with the aesthetic of a 1930s style cartoon. Every sprite in the game was drawn and animated by hand and, with the 
film grain effect and the jazzy 30s-styled music, it really feels like you're watching a 1930s cartoon. The animation is fluid and 
extremely lively, and I just loved playing it for the aesthetic alone.

There are three main gameplay styles in Cuphead: Run & gun platformer levels, standard boss levels, and plane levels. In the run & gun
levels, you're tasked with simply going from one end of the stage to the other, while fighting and dodging enemies and optionally 
collecting 6 coins scattered throughout the level. These were by far the easiest levels in the game, but I really enjoyed them a lot.
The main meat of the game are the standard boss fights. These were my favorite levels in the game. Almost all of them I thoroughly
enjoyed wholeheartedly. The final type of levels are the plane levels. These were by far my least favorite of the entire game. I felt
like they were way too unbalanced and just not fun at all for me to play. Luckily, there were only a handful of them in the game. Still,
I can't feel like these levels really put a damper on my feeling of the game overall.

Aside from the aesthetic, the other part of Cuphead that is often talked about is the difficulty. Cuphead is a very difficult game, 
though not impossible by any means. I really enjoyed the difficult of the game. While I was constantly getting frustrated at the game,
I still loved being able to learn the bosses' patterns and finally overcome them. The difficulty itself was fine. My issue with the 
difficulty is that it feels very inconsistent. I understand that the difficulty curve is hard to create in a game like this, since you
can do many of the bosses in different orders, but even still, the difficulty between each world is still really inconsistent. There 
were some bosses that took me dozens of times to get through and there were others that I was able to beat in just a handful of tries.
It just felt really odd for it to be all over the place. 

Overall, Cuphead is without a doubt a landmark game. The aesthetic is unlike anything that's ever been created in video games and the
gameplay is exciting if nothing else. I thoroughly enjoyed my playthrough of this game at every moment, excluding only a handful of the 
plane levels. Cuphead is a phenomenal game only hindered by its awkward difficulty curve and a handful of unfairly frustrating levels.