Title: Donkey Kong Country Tropical Freeze

Rating: 7

Hours Played: ~20

Thoughts: As a big fan of the original DKC trilogy, I was very hesitant to play Tropical Freeze. I've heard countless reports of how
it is an excellent 2D platformer, one of the best in recent times, and I was nervous to play it because I was sure it couldn't live up
to my feelings regarding the originals. And, to be honest, I was right. After finishing Tropical Freeze, collecting the KONG letters in
every level, completing every secret level, and unlocking and completing the secret world 7. Overall, I enjoyed the game. I didn't think
it was bad by any means. But it is far from my favorite 2D platformer.

There is a lot to love about Tropical Freeze. The music is phenomenal (no surprise there, since the legendary David Wise returned to 
compose for this game), the presentation is wonderful, the level design is very well done, as each level is designed so that it makes
sense for platforms to be there, instead of just platforms floating there for no reason, the atmosphere is excellent. But the difficulty
is where I start to have issues.

To start, the mechanics of the game are much more involved than the originals. While each Kong buddy has an ability unique to them,
which is similar to the original games, the standard movement mechanics are very different. There is no run button. The standard moving
speed is the fastest you can move. The roll is now a separate move because of this change, which causes a small speed boost that stops
very abruptly. The momentum is very strange. You don't gain any momentum after a jump, so jumping from a stand-still makes it incredibly
difficult to move in the air. You need to move for a small amount before jumping to retain that momentum, and often times I felt like I
would move to gain that momentum but I wouldn't gain it fast enough, causing me to die from an inability to move. Jumping higher off of
an enemy is different too. Instead of pressing and holding jump after hitting the enemy, you instead need to press and hold jump any
time before hitting an enemy to get an increased bounce. This is not an issue inherently, but it took me until dying repeatedly on the
third world to finally realize this mechanic, since it is different from the originals. This is where a lot of my issues with the
difficulty come in. At face value, Tropical Freeze is a difficult game. There are many levels where I died a huge number of times due to
difficult platforming challenges. However, I never once saw the game over screen. Instead, I usually had upwards of 90 or more lives 
throughout my entire playthrough. The moment to moment platforming challenges were hard, but it didn't feel like a challenge. It just
felt like a loss of time. The levels are designed to be difficult, but lives are given so generously that losing one just feels like a
small time loss. You see the death animation and you're set back to the last checkpoint, and you do the same thing over again. This 
wouldn't be so bad if so many of my deaths didn't come from the mechanics of the game themselves.

A good majority of my deaths in Tropical Freeze felt like they were due to the mechanics of the game rather than my own failure to 
overcome a platforming challenge. In almost every water level, I would die a number of times because the swimming mechanics are very
wonky. I died many times from a lack of built up momentum, causing an inability to move after I jumped. I died way too often from a
roll ending way sooner and more abruptly than I'd expected. I died so many times on one level because I didn't understand the bouncing
off of enemies mechanic. These deaths, while mostly my fault, still felt somewhat cheap. I recognize that a big part of this is because
all of these mechanics are different from the originals and I'm just trying to play this game like it's one of the originals, but it
still felt way too annoying.

I do still enjoy this game. There were some levels that genuinely felt like excellent challenges and I loved going through them. There
were many levels, however, that just felt like a chore to go through. The difficulty curve felt very bad, with some levels going from
excruciatingly frustrating to unbelievably easy all over the place. In the end, I think Tropical Freeze does many excellent things for
the genre as a whole, as is a good game. But it doesn't come close to the magnificence of the originals in my eyes.