Title: Kirby Star Allies

Rating: 8

Hours Played: 10

Thoughts: Kirby Star Allies is the 4th game in the Kirby franchise to follow the Return to Dreamland gameplay formula. While
Triple Deluxe and Planet Robobot simply felt like the same sort of game, with a slightly new coat of paint, some new abilities,
and a new special ability to replace the one from the previous game, Star Allies really shifts this formula up with its main
mechanic: the friend heart. The other games with the Return to Dreamland formula have a big super ability that takes up a small
section of certain levels, but the second-to-second gameplay outside of these sections is identical to the last. Star Allies can
certainly be played in the same way, with those super ability sections being relegated to the massive friend abilities. However,
what makes Star Allies unique is that this friend heart ability also affects the normal sections of the game, with Kirby now
having the ability to convert enemies to his team to help him on his journey.

The other big change with Star Allies is that it allows Kirby and his allies to combine their powers, usually adding some sort
of elemental variant to the physical abilities, such as fire sword, spark ninja, ice hammer, etc. While these combination powers
are not nearly as involved as the combinations in Crystal Shards, they do build off of the foundation that Squeak Squad started.
I really enjoyed these combo abilities. I had figured that most would simply add elemental properties to these abilities, but, in
actuality, many of the abilities actually have new things added to their movesets with the element added. Spark Ninja Kirby's dash 
attack makes lightning strike down. Fire Sword Kirby has an added strike to his down slash, which makes flames erupt and shoot 
towards the enemies. These little additions aren't much, but they help to make the combinations feel more unique.

While the friend heart ability creates the main reason I love the game so much, it also creates my biggest issue with the game: 
the game gets too hectic with so many allies. I'm sure this is much better with actual human companions, but the single player
experience is a little flawed. The CPU AI is very good, but sometimes I feel it's too good, and your allies can sometimes just
take on most of the enemies in the game for you. It ends up making an already easy game that much easier, and just took away from
my overall enjoyment sometimes, and I often found myself getting allies to get the ability I need, and then immediately getting
rid of them to play through the game with no allies.

There are a variety of side minigames to enjoy, but I didn't particularly get into them. I played them each once and was done.
The two that actually stand out for me are Guest Star ????, where you play through a series of levels from the game as fast as
you can, but this time playing as one of Kirby's allies rather than the pink puffball himself, and The Ultimate Choice, which is
a boss rush mode where you and up to 3 allies must play through every boss in the game, plus some new ones, in just a single run
with limited health items. It's genuinely difficult on higher difficulties and I've still yet to beat it on the highest one.

Star Allies looks beautiful in HD on the Switch, both docked and not. Every single character in this game looks adorable in their
own right, from Kirby to the enemies to bosses, with the only exception maybe being the final boss, but that's more so because it
looks intense, rather than cute. The music is also excellent, keeping the standard poppy and bubbly feel that Kirby music
typically has. There is a good mix of original tracks and remixed old tracks, which I really enjoyed listening to. Overall, I liked
Star Allies a lot. It's definitely not perfect and far from my favorite Kirby game, it's not even my favorite of the Return to 
Dreamland "series" of games, but it's still a good game in its own right, and I genuinely had a good time playing through it.