Title: Shadow of the Colossus PS4

Rating: 7

Hours Played: 10

Thoughts: Shadow of the Colossus for the PS4 is a very interesting game. The gameplay is simple, if frustrating at times. 
When the game works, you genuinely feel like an insignificant bug crawling on the bodies of these massive colossi. The battles feel
epic and extremely satisfying when you figure out how to defeat each specific colossi. Finding out how to reach each colossi's weak
point was an interesting puzzle in its own right, though some were much better than others. When the game doesn'twork, however, 
it just feels like the game is working against you, making certain sections just feel cheap, like I'd died or lost progress through 
no fault of my own. 

The time between each colossus fight is tedious and annoying. The world geninely feels massive, but traveling to each colossus just
isn't fun, especially when your sword doesn't show you the path when in the dark. There certainly are things to do inthe world. 
There are shrines to visit, which act as checkpoints, where you can start from if you die. There are white tailed lizard, which can
increase your stamina when killed. There are fruits on trees, which increase your health when eaten. There are golden coins which,
once all are collected, unlock a unique sword for Wander to wield. These side quests feel unnecessary at best, and incredibly tedious
at worst. Unless you're dead set on 100%, these can easily be skipped.

The game's visuals are absolutely stunning. Shadow of the Colossus on the PS4 is by far one of the best looking games I have ever
played. The textures and models are sharp, the lighting is excellent and feels realistic, the animations are incredibly fluid, with
characters' and the colossi's movements looking extremely realistic. The music is just as good. While mostly subdued and atmospheric,
they serve to compliment the game very well, especially when the music begins to swell as you're mid-combat with a colossus.

The main reason to play Shadow of the Colossus is the story. The game embraces a very minimalistic feel, employing a "show, don't tell"
type of storytelling. Not much is explained. You play as Wander, who travels to these forbidden lands to plead to a mysterious god, 
Dormin, to revive a deceased girl, named Mono. Dormin tells you that, in order to revive Mono, you must kill 16 colossi that inhabit
the forbidden lands. Killing each colossus makes the player feel guilty for what they've done. This poor, gentle giant was peacfully 
living its life until you came by and killed it. Upon killing each colossus, Wander is assaulted by this shadowy energy that energes 
from the colossus. Wander continues on this quest for the duration of the game, with very little changing other than several small 
cutscenes that help flesh out what is happening. This all swells up to the climactic finish of the game, which genuinely blew me away.

Shadow of the Colossus is a game that I feel any gamer should play. The controls are wonky at times, the side quests are uninteresting,
and the travel between each colossus is boring, but, despite this, I still thoroughly enjoyed my playthrough. While it's far from 
perfect, I feel that Shadow of the Colossus is definitely worth the 5-6 hours that a standard playthrough will take.