Title: Undertale

Rating: 10

Hours Played: 51

Thoughts: Undertale is a very unique game. It is an indie RPG heavily inspired by games like Earthbound. The most unique aspect of 
Undertale, and what makes it so great, is its morality system. Undertale can be played like any other RPG, where you fight monsters,
gain EXP, and increase your LV when you get enough EXP. However, every encounter in the game can also be solved without fighting. 
Every monster in the game has some way to end an encounter with them peacefully, usually by acting a certain way to make them willing
to spare you. This might not seem very exciting in its own right, but its the specific implementation of this morality system that 
makes the game so intriguing. 

Every character in Undertale is extremely well-written, from major characters to throwaway generic monsters you encounter. This is
what makes the morality system work. Undertale is a game that makes you genuinely feel awful for killing monsters. It twists the
player's expectations on their head. In any other RPG, the main mechanic would be to kill the monsters you fight, but Undertale takes
advantage of this preconceived notion to emphasize its themes. When you play through the game as you would any other RPG, you get the
neutral ending. This is the most common ending to get. You get this ending if any single monster is killed throughout your playthrough
or if any of three major side quests aren't completed. This ending is the one that blows away most people who play this game. 

In addition to this ending, there are two other endings that the player can get. If the player spares every monster in the game and 
goes on three optional dates, a new area is opened up to explore, which reveals a large amount of lore to the player. This ending is
the "good" ending of the game, and results in all of the monsters being allowed to leave the Underground and return to the Surface for
a happy ending. This is where most of the personality in this game shows, as its main focus is on the characterization of the monsters
you encounter. There is also the genocide ending. This is by far the most difficult ending to get, and, while it's not my favorite, 
it is by far the most intriguing to me.

In order to get the genocide ending, you are forced to kill every single monster in the Underground. This doesn't mean just killing
every monster you encounter. Rather, you must continue to grind encounters until no more monsters show up at all. I think this design
is so well done. The main gameplay of Undertale mixes traditional RPG gameplay for the player's turn with bullet hell-style gameplay
for the player's defensive phase. Because of this, it's possible to dodge every single point of damage in the game during normal
encounters. This means that grinding, which is often utilized in other RPGs, is completely unnecessary. This means that the player most
likely has to actively want to get the genocide ending in order to know to do this grinding. This ending is by far the most dark in the
entire game, and contains some of the most difficult boss fights in the entire game.

Undertale is a magnificent game. It is one of the most well-written games I've played in the last few years. Its characters are
incredibly likable. There is not a single character in the game that I dislike, unless they are written to specifically be unlikable.
The gameplay is simple, yet very enjoyable. The morality system is extremely well-implemented. Every aspect of this game is so
thoroughly thought out. The music is unbelievably catchy and perfectly compliments every area of the game. Undertale is a one-of-a-kind
game. Every aspect of it all came together to create what is, in my eyes, a perfect experience, and it has quickly become one of my
favorite games of all time.