Title: Assassin's Creed Origins

Rating: 8/10 

Ownership: Physical Copy - PS4

Hours Played: 25+

Start Date: 5/7/18

Finish Date: 5/13/18

Thoughts:
While the game takes a massive departure from the basic formula of Assassin's Creed, I am excited to see it moving 
in a new an interesting direction. The combat could use work, as at times it feels to loose and upredictable 
(and with a harsh level curve that often feels cheap), but the stealth and free running are doing great and work well 
in Ancient Egypt. Talking more about the rpg system, while unlocking new abilities is fun over time, only getting one 
ability point for every level isn't enough and should probably ramp up to 2 or 3 points per level to keep the skill tree 
on curve with the game. I often found myself grinding out many side quests just to hit the level requirements to tackle
certain missions. This wasn't awful as the game has more robust side quests than previous entries, but still not preferable.
Finally getting on the narrative of the game, while seeing the origins of the assassins is cool for people who enjoy the series 
they really don't talk about it as much as I would have liked. It feels like something shoved in at the last minute, I also think 
the relationship between Aya and Bayek could have been handled much better. As you hunt for your son's killer Aya becomes more 
and more distance and cold to killing, I wish they expanded on this more as she strayed from any path that made sense, but instead it 
just kind of dissapears into the background of the story as the game ends. I did really enjoy Ceaser and Cleopatra though, seeing 
them and their crucial moments in history was definitely appreciated and was one of the more historic moments Assassin's Creed 
has covered as of late, 
so much appreciated. I'd say if you were looking for an old school assassin's creed, this isn't for you. However, if you're looking for
something that really changes up the formula and still presents you with a similar narrative and focus on stealth, 
then its 100% worth looking into.
